At Deuteronomy 32-7, Moses urged the Israelites to pause and reflect on their spiritual heritage.
He said,
Remember the days of old.
Consider the years of past generations.
Our museums at World Headquarters help us to do just that,
to learn about our history,
and consider how Jehovah has blessed and guided his people through these last days.
Of course, with the COVID-19 pandemic, visits to the museums had to be put on hold.
But the work of the museum department has kept right on going.
In fact, the museum department has been busier than ever.
In this report, we will provide an update on the work to create beautiful new museums
at dozens of branches.
These museums will help our brothers and sisters world-wide
to explore the history of the Bible and our rich spiritual heritage.
Each museum project starts when a branch office writes the coordinators committee
to request approval to develop a new museum.
Once approved, the coordinators committee provides direction about the type of museum to develop.
The museum might present the history of the Bible in the languages of the branch territory,
or a history museum showing how the work of Jehovah's Witnesses developed in the branch territory,
or displays that give behind-the-scenes look at Bethel operations in the local branch.
The theme chosen for our museum was,
this is the heritage of Jehovah's servants.
We were helped to see the benefits of dividing the exhibition by time periods,
since it both aids in teaching and lends to the theme.
We're so grateful for the help we've received from the coordinators committee and the museum
department. An increased appreciation for everything that Jehovah has done for his people
can be seen in the eyes of the visitors.
If all these projects coordinated through the museum department,
does that mean they'll all be the same?
The answer is most definitely no.
When developing exhibits, the museum department doesn't use a cookie cutter or one size of its
all approach. We want the visitors to the exhibit to experience the local history and culture of the
branch territory and be encouraged by it. So even though we do have a set of standard exhibit
components we use, we work very closely with the local exhibit team to make sure that each exhibit
is unique and enjoyable. The Bible Museum that opened at the Argentina branch in 2019
is a good example of how museum content is tailored to the local branch territory.
From the mid-19th century to the beginning of the 20th century, Argentina received millions
of immigrants from all over Europe. And many of them brought with them their
Bibles and their native languages, the same Bibles with which some of them later learned the truth.
That is why it is so significant that our new Bible exhibition contains copies in Italian,
Armenian, and Hebrew among others. In Argentina there are also many people who speak different
indigenous languages. Therefore the history of the Bible in this country would not be complete.
If we did not include in our exhibition modern translations into these languages,
such as Wechi, Toba, Pilaga and Mokovia among others.
The museum department was also working on a new museum at the Scandinavia branch.
This was also a Bible Museum, but with a very unique story. In our exhibition on how the Bible
and God's name have been preserved in Scandinavia, we show Bibles in all the Scandinavian languages
that use the name Jehovah. That is in Greenlandic, Icelandic, Fairways, Danish, Norwegian,
Swedish, yes, even in Samin. The two oldest complete Bibles we have are Gustav Vesas Bible
from 1541 and Christian III's Bible from 1550. Sadly, these Bibles do not contain Jehovah's
name. But interestingly, the 1550 Bible has a handwritten note which in Latin explains the
meaning of the name Jehovah. Our branch committee is so grateful to World Headquarters for the
direction given in 2019 while preparing the Bible exhibit at the France branch. The museum
department kindly offered to display an original copy of the 1535 French Olive Tom Bible.
This rare Bible is one of the most significant Bibles on display. Not only is it the first Bible
to be translated from the original languages into French, but it also contains the divine name
Jehovah. As you can see, our museum's worldwide are providing faith strengthening divine education.
It takes much work to do so. It's a real team effort. The coordinators committee provides
direction on the content while museum department personnel provide training and support for the
local branch exhibit teams. And once concepts are approved, the worldwide design construction
department and regional design construction department get involved in organizing the construction
work. The museum department helped us to select a suitable location that would meet the standards
of a real museum. The worldwide design and construction department reviewed the construction
process and budget. With their assistance, we built a museum that really is a powerful tool
to instill love for Jehovah and his word. In the past, we have had various exhibits at the branch,
but this exhibit isn't like anything we have experienced.
Our branch committee and the entire Bethel family were so impressed to see how Jehovah has made
this project possible. The story of our museums would not be complete without mentioning another
important contributor. You, because many of the rare Bibles and historical items that are
featured in our museums were donated by you, brothers and sisters. Thank you for your generosity.
If you would like to share an item with us, please feel free to contact the museum department
at World Headquarters in Warwick. If possible, please include a photograph of your item.
Jehovah is blessing the work being done to provide these inspiring museums to the worldwide
brotherhood. As of September 2021, 10 museums have already opened and we have more than 35 under
development or in the process of being built. Some of the next to open will be at the Belgium,
Britain, Central America, Czech Slowvak, Finland, Italy, Japan, and Nigeria branches.
These museums are powerful teaching tools that bring our history and the history of the
Bible to life. So as soon as conditions allow it, please come and explore our museums for yourself.
When you do, we feel confident you'll be moved to say as did the Psalmist at Psalm 77 11 to 13.
I will remember the works of John. I will remember your marvelous deeds of long ago
and I will meditate on all your activity. What God is as great as you.